     Syllabus
     Cambridge International
     AS & A Level
     Physics 9702
     Use this syllabus for exams in 2025, 2026 and 2027.
     Exams are available in the June and November series.
     Also available for examination in March 2025, 2026 and 2027 for India.




Version 1
For the purposes of screen readers, any mention in this document of Cambridge IGCSE
refers to Cambridge International General Certificate of Secondary Education.
Why choose Cambridge International?

Cambridge International prepares school students for life, helping them develop an informed curiosity and a
lasting passion for learning. We are part of Cambridge University Press & Assessment, which is a department
of the University of Cambridge.

Our Cambridge Pathway gives students a clear path for educational success from age 5 to 19. Schools can
shape the curriculum around how they want students to learn – with a wide range of subjects and flexible ways
to offer them. It helps students discover new abilities and a wider world, and gives them the skills they need for
life, so they can achieve at school, university and work.

Our programmes and qualifications set the global standard for international education. They are created by
subject experts, rooted in academic rigour and reflect the latest educational research. They provide a strong
platform for students to progress from one stage to the next, and are well supported by teaching and learning
resources.

We review all our syllabuses regularly, so they reflect the latest research evidence and professional teaching
practice – and take account of the different national contexts in which they are taught.

We consult with teachers to help us design each syllabus around the needs of their learners. Consulting with
leading universities has helped us make sure our syllabuses encourage students to master the key concepts in
the subject and develop the skills necessary for success in higher education.

Our mission is to provide educational benefit through provision of international programmes and qualifications
for school education and to be the world leader in this field. Together with schools, we develop Cambridge
learners who are confident, responsible, reflective, innovative and engaged – equipped for success in the
modern world.

Every year, nearly a million Cambridge students from 10 000 schools in 160 countries prepare for their future
with the Cambridge Pathway.


School feedback: ‘We think the Cambridge curriculum is superb preparation for university.’
Feedback from: Christoph Guttentag, Dean of Undergraduate Admissions, Duke University, USA




  Quality management
  Cambridge International is committed to providing exceptional quality. In line with this commitment, our
  quality management system for the provision of international qualifications and education programmes for
  students aged 5 to 19 is independently certified as meeting the internationally recognised standard,
  ISO 9001:2015. Learn more at www.cambridgeinternational.org/ISO9001




© Cambridge University Press & Assessment September 2022
Cambridge Assessment International Education is part of Cambridge University Press & Assessment. Cambridge University Press &
Assessment is a department of the University of Cambridge.
Cambridge University Press & Assessment retains the copyright on all its publications. Registered centres are permitted to copy
material from this booklet for their own internal use. However, we cannot give permission to centres to photocopy any material that is
acknowledged to a third party even for internal use within a centre.
Contents

Why choose Cambridge International?......................................................................... 2

1 Why choose this syllabus? ......................................................................................... 5

2 Syllabus overview . ...................................................................................................... 9
   Aims                                                                                                                     9
   Content overview                                                                                                        10
   Assessment overview                                                                                                     11
   Assessment objectives                                                                                                   13

3 Subject content ..........................................................................................................15
   AS Level subject content                                                                                                16
   A Level subject content                                                                                                26

4 Details of the assessment . ...................................................................................... 40
   Paper 1 Multiple Choice                                                                                                40
   Paper 2 AS Level Structured Questions                                                                                  40
   Paper 3 Advanced Practical Skills                                                                                      40
   Paper 4 A Level Structured Questions                                                                                   40
   Paper 5 Planning, Analysis and Evaluation                                                                              40
   Command words                                                                                                           41

5 Practical assessment................................................................................................ 42
   Introduction                                                                                                           42
   Paper 3 Advanced Practical Skills                                                                                      42
   Paper 5 Planning, Analysis and Evaluation                                                                              49

6 Additional information............................................................................................... 53
   Mathematical requirements                                                                                              53
   Summary of key quantities, symbols and units                                                                           55
   Data and formulae                                                                                                      58
   Circuit symbols                                                                                                         61
7 What else you need to know .................................................................................... 63
   Before you start                                                                                              63
   Making entries                                                                                                64
   Accessibility and equality                                                                                    64
   After the exam                                                                                                65
   How students, teachers and higher education can use the grades                                                66
   Grade descriptions                                                                                            66
   Changes to this syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027                                                              67




  Important: Changes to this syllabus
  For information about changes to this syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027, go to page 67.
  The latest syllabus is version 1, published September 2022. There are no significant changes which affect
  teaching.
  Any textbooks endorsed to support the syllabus for examination from 2022 are still suitable for use with this
  syllabus.
                                                     Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027.




         1 Why choose this syllabus?

         Key benefits
         The best motivation for a student is a real passion for the
         subject they’re learning. By offering students a variety of
         Cambridge International AS & A Levels, you can give them the
         greatest chance of finding the path of education they most
         want to follow. With over 50 subjects to choose from, students
         can select the ones they love and that they’re best at, which
         helps motivate them throughout their studies.                                      Cambridge
                                                                                             learner
         Following a Cambridge International AS & A Level programme
         helps students develop abilities which universities value highly,
         including:
         •   a deep understanding of their subjects
         •   higher order thinking skills – analysis, critical thinking,
             problem solving
         •   presenting ordered and coherent arguments
         •   independent learning and research.

         Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics develops a set of transferable skills including handling data,
         practical problem-solving, and applying the scientific method. Learners develop relevant attitudes, such as
         concern for accuracy and precision, objectivity, integrity, enquiry, initiative and inventiveness. They acquire the
         essential scientific skills required for progression to further studies or employment.

         Our approach in Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics encourages learners to be:

         confident, secure in their knowledge, keen to explore further and able to communicate effectively through the
         language of science

         responsible, developing efficient and safe scientific practices and working collaboratively with others

         reflective, able to evaluate evidence to draw informed and appropriate conclusions and recognising that the
         applications of science have the potential to affect the individual, the community and the environment

         innovative, applying problem-solving skills to novel situations and engaging with new tools and techniques,
         including information technology, to develop successful approaches

         engaged, developing an enquiring mind, keen to apply scientific skills in everyday life.




         School feedback: ‘Cambridge students develop a deep understanding of subjects and
         independent thinking skills.’
         Feedback from: Principal, Rockledge High School, USA




Back to contents page                                                                   www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel        5
                        Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Why choose this syllabus?




         Key concepts
         Key concepts are essential ideas that help students develop a deep understanding of their subject and make
         links between different aspects. Key concepts may open up new ways of thinking about, understanding or
         interpreting the important things to be learned.

         Good teaching and learning will incorporate and reinforce a subject’s key concepts to help students gain:
         •   a greater depth as well as breadth of subject knowledge
         •   confidence, especially in applying knowledge and skills in new situations
         •   the vocabulary to discuss their subject conceptually and show how different aspects link together
         •   a level of mastery of their subject to help them enter higher education.

         The key concepts identified below, carefully introduced and developed, will help to underpin the course you will
         teach. You may identify additional key concepts which will also enrich teaching and learning.

         The key concepts for Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics are:
         •   Models of physical systems
             Physics is the science that seeks to understand the behaviour of the Universe. The development of models
             of physical systems is central to physics. Models simplify, explain and predict how physical systems
             behave.
         •   Testing predictions against evidence
             Physical models are usually based on prior observations, and their predictions are tested to check that
             they are consistent with the behaviour of the real world. This testing requires evidence, often obtained from
             experiments.
         •   Mathematics as a language, and problem-solving tool
             Mathematics is integral to physics, as it is the language that is used to express physical principles and
             models. It is also a tool to analyse theoretical models, solve quantitative problems and produce predictions.
         •   Matter, energy and waves
             Everything in the Universe comprises matter and/or energy. Waves are a key mechanism for the transfer of
             energy and are essential to many modern applications of physics.
         •   Forces and fields
             The way that matter and energy interact is through forces and fields. The behaviour of the Universe is
             governed by fundamental forces with different magnitudes that interact over different distances. Physics
             involves study of these interactions across distances ranging from the very small (quantum and particle
             physics) to the very large (astronomy and cosmology).




Back to contents page                                                                   www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel     6
                           Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Why choose this syllabus?




         International recognition and acceptance
         Our expertise in curriculum, teaching and learning, and assessment is the basis for the recognition of
         our programmes and qualifications around the world. Every year thousands of students with Cambridge
         International AS & A Levels gain places at leading universities worldwide. Our programmes and qualifications
         are valued by top universities around the world including those in the UK, US (including Ivy League universities),
         Europe, Australia, Canada and New Zealand.

         UK NARIC*, the national agency in the UK for the recognition and comparison of international qualifications and
         skills, has carried out an independent benchmarking study of Cambridge International AS & A Level and found
         it to be comparable to the standard of AS & A Level in the UK. This means students can be confident that their
         Cambridge International AS & A Level qualifications are accepted as equivalent, grade for grade, to UK AS & A
         Levels by leading universities worldwide.

         Cambridge International AS Level Physics makes up the first half of the Cambridge International A Level course
         in physics and provides a foundation for the study of physics at Cambridge International A Level. Depending on
         local university entrance requirements, students may be able to use it to progress directly to university courses
         in physics or some other subjects. It is also suitable as part of a course of general education.

         Cambridge International A Level Physics provides a foundation for the study of physics or related courses in
         higher education. Equally it is suitable as part of a course of general education.

         For more information about the relationship between the Cambridge International AS Level and Cambridge
         International A Level see the ‘Assessment overview’ section of the Syllabus overview.

         We recommend learners check the Cambridge recognition database and university websites to find the most
         up-to-date entry requirements for courses they wish to study.

         * Due to the United Kingdom leaving the European Union, the UK NARIC national recognition agency function was re-titled as UK ENIC
         on 1 March 2021, operated and managed by Ecctis Limited. From 1 March 2021, international benchmarking findings are published
         under the Ecctis name.


         Learn more at www.cambridgeinternational.org/recognition




         School feedback: ‘The depth of knowledge displayed by the best A Level students makes
         them prime targets for America’s Ivy League universities.’
         Feedback from: Yale University, USA




Back to contents page                                                                             www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       7
                            Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Why choose this syllabus?




         Supporting teachers
         We provide a wide range of resources, detailed guidance, innovative training and professional development so
         that you can give your students the best possible preparation for Cambridge International AS & A Level. To find
         out which resources are available for each syllabus go to www.cambridgeinternational.org/support

         The School Support Hub is our secure online site for Cambridge teachers where you can find the resources
         you need to deliver our programmes. You can also keep up to date with your subject and the global Cambridge
         community through our online discussion forums.

         Find out more at www.cambridgeinternational.org/support


             Support for Cambridge International AS & A Level

             Planning and                  Teaching and                Learning and revision        Results
             preparation                   assessment                  •   Example candidate        •   Candidate Results
             •    Schemes of work          •   Endorsed resources          responses                    Service
             •    Specimen papers          •   Online forums           •   Past papers and          •   Principal examiner
             •    Syllabuses               •   Support for                 mark schemes                 reports for teachers
             •    Teacher guides               coursework and          •   Specimen paper
                                               speaking tests              answers


         Sign up for email notifications about changes to syllabuses, including new and revised products and services at
         www.cambridgeinternational.org/syllabusupdates


         Professional development
         We support teachers through:
         •       Introductory Training – face-to-face or online
         •       Extension Training – face-to-face or online
         •       Enrichment Professional Development – face-to-face or online
         Find out more at www.cambridgeinternational.org/events

         •       Cambridge Professional Development Qualifications
         Find out more at www.cambridgeinternational.org/profdev




             Supporting exams officers
             We provide comprehensive support and guidance for all Cambridge exams officers.
             Find out more at: www.cambridgeinternational.org/eoguide




Back to contents page                                                                    www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel        8
                                                   Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027.




         2 Syllabus overview

         Aims
         The aims describe the purposes of a course based on this syllabus.

         The aims are to enable students to:
         •    acquire knowledge and understanding and develop practical skills, including efficient, accurate and safe
              scientific practices
         •    learn to apply the scientific method, while developing an awareness of the limitations of scientific theories
              and models
         •    develop skills in data analysis, evaluation and drawing conclusions, cultivating attitudes relevant to science
              such as objectivity, integrity, enquiry, initiative and inventiveness
         •    develop effective scientific communication skills, using appropriate terminology and scientific conventions
         •    understand their responsibility to others/society and to care for the environment
         •    enjoy science and develop an informed interest in the subject that may lead to further study.




             Cambridge Assessment International Education is an education organisation and politically
             neutral. The contents of this syllabus, examination papers and associated materials do not endorse any
             political view. We endeavour to treat all aspects of the exam process neutrally.




Back to contents page                                                                  www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       9
                                   Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Syllabus overview




         Content overview
         Candidates for Cambridge International AS Level Physics study the following topics:
         1   Physical quantities and units
         2   Kinematics
         3   Dynamics
         4   Forces, density and pressure
         5   Work, energy and power
         6   Deformation of solids
         7   Waves
         8   Superposition
         9   Electricity
         10 D.C. circuits
         11 Particle physics

         AS Level candidates also study practical skills.


         Candidates for Cambridge International A Level Physics study the AS Level topics and the
         following topics:
         12 Motion in a circle
         13 Gravitational fields
         14 Temperature
         15 Ideal gases
         16 Thermodynamics
         17 Oscillations
         18 Electric fields
         19 Capacitance
         20 Magnetic fields
         21 Alternating currents
         22 Quantum physics
         23 Nuclear physics
         24 Medical physics
         25 Astronomy and cosmology

         A Level candidates also study practical skills.




         School feedback: ‘Cambridge International AS & A Levels prepare students well for university
         because they’ve learnt to go into a subject in considerable depth. There’s that ability to really
         understand the depth and richness and the detail of a subject. It’s a wonderful preparation for
         what they are going to face at university.’
         Feedback from: US Higher Education Advisory Council




Back to contents page                                                                   www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       10
                                 Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Syllabus overview




         Assessment overview
          Paper 1                                                          Paper 4

          Multiple Choice                  1 hour 15 minutes               A Level Structured Questions             2 hours
          40 marks                                                         100 marks
          40 multiple-choice questions                                     Structured questions
          Questions are based on the AS Level syllabus                     Questions are based on the A Level syllabus
          content.                                                         content; knowledge of material from the AS Level
          Externally assessed                                              syllabus content will be required.
          31% of the AS Level                                              Externally assessed
          15.5% of the A Level                                             38.5% of the A Level



          Paper 2                                                          Paper 5

          AS Level Structured Questions                                    Planning, Analysis and Evaluation
                                      1 hour 15 minutes                                                 1 hour 15 minutes
          60 marks                                                         30 marks
          Structured questions                                             Candidates answer two compulsory questions.
          Questions are based on the AS Level syllabus                     Questions are based on the experimental skills in
          content.                                                         the Practical assessment section of the syllabus.
          Externally assessed                                              The context of the questions may be outside the
                                                                           syllabus content.
          46% of the AS Level
                                                                           Externally assessed
          23% of the A Level
                                                                           11.5% of the A Level



          Paper 3

          Advanced Practical Skills                   2 hours
          40 marks
          Practical work and structured questions
          Questions are based on the experimental skills in
          the Practical assessment section of the syllabus.
          The context of the questions may be outside the
          syllabus content.
          Externally assessed
          23% of the AS Level
          11.5% of the A Level


         Information on availability is in the Before you start section.




Back to contents page                                                                   www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel     11
                                 Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Syllabus overview




         There are three routes for Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics:
              Route                                     Paper 1        Paper 2       Paper 3        Paper 4        Paper 5

          1   AS Level only
              (Candidates take all AS                      yes           yes            yes
              components in the same exam
              series)

          2   A Level (staged over two years)
              Year 1 AS Level*                             yes           yes            yes

              Year 2 Complete the A Level                                                              yes            yes

          3   A Level
              (Candidates take all components in           yes           yes            yes            yes            yes
              the same exam series)

         * Candidates carry forward their AS Level result subject to the rules and time limits described in the Cambridge
         Handbook. See Making entries for more information on carry forward of results.

         Candidates following an AS Level route are eligible for grades a–e. Candidates following an A Level route are
         eligible for grades A*–E.




Back to contents page                                                                   www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel     12
                                 Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Syllabus overview




         Assessment objectives
         The assessment objectives (AOs) are:


         AO1 Knowledge and understanding
         Candidates should be able to demonstrate knowledge and understanding of:
         •   scientific phenomena, facts, laws, definitions, concepts and theories
         •   scientific vocabulary, terminology and conventions (including symbols, quantities and units)
         •   scientific instruments and apparatus, including techniques of operation and aspects of safety
         •   scientific quantities and their determination
         •   scientific and technological applications with their social, economic and environmental implications.


         AO2 Handling, applying and evaluating information
         Candidates should be able to handle, apply and evaluate information in words or using other forms of
         presentation (e.g. symbols, graphical or numerical) to:
         •   locate, select, organise and present information from a variety of sources
         •   translate information from one form to another
         •   manipulate numerical and other data
         •   use information to identify patterns, report trends and draw conclusions
         •   give reasoned explanations for phenomena, patterns and relationships
         •   make predictions and construct arguments to support hypotheses
         •   make sense of new situations
         •   evaluate hypotheses
         •   demonstrate an awareness of the limitations of physical theories and models
         •   solve problems.


         AO3 Experimental skills and investigations
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   plan experiments and investigations
         •   collect, record and present observations, measurements and estimates
         •   analyse and interpret experimental data to reach conclusions
         •   evaluate methods and quality of experimental data, and suggest improvements to experiments.




Back to contents page                                                                 www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       13
                               Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Syllabus overview




         Weighting for assessment objectives
         The approximate weightings allocated to each of the assessment objectives (AOs) are summarised below.


         Assessment objectives as a percentage of each qualification

          Assessment objective                                 Weighting in AS Level %          Weighting in A Level %

          AO1 Knowledge and understanding                                  40                               40

          AO2 Handling, applying and evaluating information                40                               40

          AO3 Experimental skills and investigations                       20                               20

          Total                                                            100                             100


         Assessment objectives as a percentage of each component
          Assessment objective                                              Weighting in components %

                                                                Paper 1     Paper 2     Paper 3     Paper 4      Paper 5

          AO1 Knowledge and understanding                          50           50          0          50          0

          AO2 Handling, applying and evaluating information        50           50          0          50          0

          AO3 Experimental skills and investigations               0             0        100          0          100

          Total                                                   100         100         100         100         100




Back to contents page                                                                www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel      14
                                                   Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027.




         3 Subject content

         This syllabus gives you the flexibility to design a course that will interest, challenge and engage your learners.
         Where appropriate you are responsible for selecting subject contexts, resources and examples to support your
         learners’ study. These should be appropriate for the learners’ age, cultural background and learning context as
         well as complying with your school policies and local legal requirements.

         Candidates for Cambridge International AS Level should study topics 1–11.

         Candidates for Cambridge International A Level should study all topics.

         The content of the AS Level learning outcomes is assumed knowledge for the A Level components.

         Teachers should refer to the social, environmental, economic and technological aspects of physics wherever
         possible throughout the syllabus. Some examples are included in the syllabus and teachers should encourage
         learners to apply the principles of these examples to other situations introduced in the course.

         The syllabus content for practical skills is in the Practical assessment section.

         Teachers should ensure that candidates are prepared for the assessment of both theory learning outcomes
         and practical skills.

         Support for teaching practical skills for these qualifications can be found on the School Support Hub
         www.cambridgeinternational.org/support


         Data and formulae
         Data and formulae will appear as page 2 in Papers 1 and 2 and pages 2 and 3 in Paper 4. The data and
         formulae are shown in section 6.


         Decimal markers
         In accordance with current ASE convention, decimal markers in examination papers will be a single dot on the
         line. Candidates are expected to follow this convention in their answers.


         Units
         In practical work, candidates will be expected to use SI units or, where appropriate, units approved by the BIPM
         for use with the SI (e.g. minute). A list of SI units and units approved for use with the SI may be found in the SI
         brochure at www.bipm.org. The use of imperial/customary units such as the inch and degree Fahrenheit is
         not acceptable and should be discouraged. In all examinations, where data is supplied for use in questions,
         candidates will be expected to use units that are consistent with the units supplied, and should not attempt
         conversion to other systems of units unless this is a requirement of the question.




Back to contents page                                                                  www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel      15
                                   Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




         AS Level subject content
          1    Physical quantities and units

          1.1 Physical quantities

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    understand that all physical quantities consist of a numerical magnitude and a unit

          2    make reasonable estimates of physical quantities included within the syllabus



          1.2 SI units

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	recall the following SI base quantities and their units: mass (kg), length (m), time (s), current (A),
             temperature (K)

          2    express derived units as products or quotients of the SI base units and use the derived units for
               quantities listed in this syllabus as appropriate

          3    use SI base units to check the homogeneity of physical equations

          4    recall and use the following prefixes and their symbols to indicate decimal submultiples or multiples of
               both base and derived units: pico (p), nano (n), micro (μ), milli (m), centi (c), deci (d), kilo (k), mega (M),
               giga (G), tera (T)



          1.3 Errors and uncertainties

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand and explain the effects of systematic errors (including zero errors) and random errors in
             measurements

          2	understand the distinction between precision and accuracy

          3	assess the uncertainty in a derived quantity by simple addition of absolute or percentage uncertainties



          1.4 Scalars and vectors

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand the difference between scalar and vector quantities and give examples of scalar and vector
             quantities included in the syllabus

          2	add and subtract coplanar vectors

          3    represent a vector as two perpendicular components




Back to contents page                                                                    www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel    16
                                  Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          2   Kinematics

          2.1 Equations of motion

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    define and use distance, displacement, speed, velocity and acceleration

          2    use graphical methods to represent distance, displacement, speed, velocity and acceleration

          3    determine displacement from the area under a velocity–time graph

          4    determine velocity using the gradient of a displacement–time graph

          5    determine acceleration using the gradient of a velocity–time graph

          6	derive, from the definitions of velocity and acceleration, equations that represent uniformly accelerated
             motion in a straight line

          7	solve problems using equations that represent uniformly accelerated motion in a straight line, including
             the motion of bodies falling in a uniform gravitational field without air resistance

          8    describe an experiment to determine the acceleration of free fall using a falling object

          9	describe and explain motion due to a uniform velocity in one direction and a uniform acceleration in a
             perpendicular direction



          3    Dynamics
               An understanding of forces from Cambridge IGCSE/O Level Physics or equivalent is assumed.

          3.1 Momentum and Newton’s laws of motion

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    understand that mass is the property of an object that resists change in motion

          2	recall F = ma and solve problems using it, understanding that acceleration and resultant force are
             always in the same direction

          3    define and use linear momentum as the product of mass and velocity

          4    define and use force as rate of change of momentum

          5    state and apply each of Newton’s laws of motion

          6	describe and use the concept of weight as the effect of a gravitational field on a mass and recall that
             the weight of an object is equal to the product of its mass and the acceleration of free fall




Back to contents page                                                                www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       17
                                  Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          3.2 Non-uniform motion

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	show a qualitative understanding of frictional forces and viscous/drag forces including air resistance
             (no treatment of the coefficients of friction and viscosity is required, and a simple model of drag force
             increasing as speed increases is sufficient)

          2    describe and explain qualitatively the motion of objects in a uniform gravitational field with air resistance

          3    understand that objects moving against a resistive force may reach a terminal (constant) velocity



          3.3 Linear momentum and its conservation

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    state the principle of conservation of momentum

          2	apply the principle of conservation of momentum to solve simple problems, including elastic and
             inelastic interactions between objects in both one and two dimensions (knowledge of the concept of
             coefficient of restitution is not required)

          3	recall that, for an elastic collision, total kinetic energy is conserved and the relative speed of approach is
             equal to the relative speed of separation

          4	understand that, while momentum of a system is always conserved in interactions between objects,
             some change in kinetic energy may take place



          4    Forces, density and pressure

          4.1 Turning effects of forces

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that the weight of an object may be taken as acting at a single point known as its centre of
             gravity

          2    define and apply the moment of a force

          3    understand that a couple is a pair of forces that acts to produce rotation only

          4    define and apply the torque of a couple



          4.2 Equilibrium of forces

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    state and apply the principle of moments

          2    understand that, when there is no resultant force and no resultant torque, a system is in equilibrium

          3    use a vector triangle to represent coplanar forces in equilibrium




Back to contents page                                                                  www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel     18
                                  Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          4.3 Density and pressure

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    define and use density

          2    define and use pressure

          3    derive, from the definitions of pressure and density, the equation for hydrostatic pressure ∆p = ρg∆ h

          4    use the equation ∆p = ρg∆ h

          5    understand that the upthrust acting on an object in a fluid is due to a difference in hydrostatic pressure

          6    calculate the upthrust acting on an object in a fluid using the equation F = ρgV (Archimedes’ principle)



          5    Work, energy and power
          	
           An understanding of the forms of energy and energy transfers from Cambridge IGCSE/O Level Physics
           or equivalent is assumed.

          5.1 Energy conservation

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand the concept of work, and recall and use work done = force × displacement in the direction
             of the force

          2    recall and apply the principle of conservation of energy

          3	recall and understand that the efficiency of a system is the ratio of useful energy output from the system
             to the total energy input

          4    use the concept of efficiency to solve problems

          5    define power as work done per unit time

          6    solve problems using P = W / t

          7    derive P = Fv and use it to solve problems



          5.2 Gravitational potential energy and kinetic energy

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	derive, using W = Fs, the formula ∆EP = mg∆ h for gravitational potential energy changes in a uniform
             gravitational field

          2	recall and use the formula ∆EP = mg∆ h for gravitational potential energy changes in a uniform
             gravitational field

                                                                                          1
          3    derive, using the equations of motion, the formula for kinetic energy EK = 2 mv2

                                   1
          4    recall and use EK = 2 mv2




Back to contents page                                                                www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       19
                                   Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          6     Deformation of solids

          6.1 Stress and strain

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that deformation is caused by tensile or compressive forces (forces and deformations will
             be assumed to be in one dimension only)

          2	understand and use the terms load, extension, compression and limit of proportionality

          3     recall and use Hooke’s law

          4     recall and use the formula for the spring constant k = F / x

          5     define and use the terms stress, strain and the Young modulus

          6     describe an experiment to determine the Young modulus of a metal in the form of a wire



          6.2 Elastic and plastic behaviour

          Candidates should be able to:

          1     understand and use the terms elastic deformation, plastic deformation and elastic limit

          2     understand that the area under the force–extension graph represents the work done

          3	determine the elastic potential energy of a material deformed within its limit of proportionality from the
             area under the force–extension graph

                                     1       1
          4     recall and use EP = 2 Fx = 2 kx2 for a material deformed within its limit of proportionality



          7     Waves
                An understanding of colour from Cambridge IGCSE/O Level Physics or equivalent is assumed.

          7.1   Progressive waves

          Candidates should be able to:

          1     describe what is meant by wave motion as illustrated by vibration in ropes, springs and ripple tanks

          2	understand and use the terms displacement, amplitude, phase difference, period, frequency,
             wavelength and speed

          3	understand the use of the time-base and y-gain of a cathode-ray oscilloscope (CRO) to determine
             frequency and amplitude

          4     derive, using the definitions of speed, frequency and wavelength, the wave equation v = f λ

          5     recall and use v = f λ

          6     understand that energy is transferred by a progressive wave

          7     recall and use intensity = power/area and intensity ∝ (amplitude)2 for a progressive wave




Back to contents page                                                                   www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel     20
                                   Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          7.2 Transverse and longitudinal waves

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    compare transverse and longitudinal waves

          2    analyse and interpret graphical representations of transverse and longitudinal waves



          7.3 Doppler effect for sound waves

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that when a source of sound waves moves relative to a stationary observer, the observed
             frequency is different from the source frequency (understanding of the Doppler effect for a stationary
             source and a moving observer is not required)

          2	use the expression fο = f sv / (v ± vs) for the observed frequency when a source of sound waves moves
             relative to a stationary observer



          7.4 Electromagnetic spectrum

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    state that all electromagnetic waves are transverse waves that travel with the same speed c in free
               space

          2    recall the approximate range of wavelengths in free space of the principal regions of the
               electromagnetic spectrum from radio waves to γ-rays

          3    recall that wavelengths in the range 400–700 nm in free space are visible to the human eye



          7.5 Polarisation

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    understand that polarisation is a phenomenon associated with transverse waves

          2	recall and use Malus’s law (I = I0 cos2θ ) to calculate the intensity of a plane-polarised electromagnetic
             wave after transmission through a polarising filter or a series of polarising filters (calculation of the effect
             of a polarising filter on the intensity of an unpolarised wave is not required)




Back to contents page                                                                   www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel     21
                                  Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          8    Superposition

          8.1 Stationary waves

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    explain and use the principle of superposition

          2	show an understanding of experiments that demonstrate stationary waves using microwaves, stretched
             strings and air columns (it will be assumed that end corrections are negligible; knowledge of the
             concept of end corrections is not required)

          3    explain the formation of a stationary wave using a graphical method, and identify nodes and antinodes

          4	understand how wavelength may be determined from the positions of nodes or antinodes of a
             stationary wave



          8.2 Diffraction

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    explain the meaning of the term diffraction

          2	show an understanding of experiments that demonstrate diffraction including the qualitative effect of the
             gap width relative to the wavelength of the wave; for example diffraction of water waves in a ripple tank



          8.3 Interference

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    understand the terms interference and coherence

          2	show an understanding of experiments that demonstrate two-source interference using water waves in
             a ripple tank, sound, light and microwaves

          3    understand the conditions required if two-source interference fringes are to be observed

          4    recall and use λ = ax / D for double-slit interference using light



          8.4 The diffraction grating

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    recall and use d sin θ = nλ

          2	describe the use of a diffraction grating to determine the wavelength of light (the structure and use of
             the spectrometer are not included)




Back to contents page                                                                www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       22
                                   Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          9    Electricity

          9.1 Electric current

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    understand that an electric current is a flow of charge carriers

          2    understand that the charge on charge carriers is quantised

          3    recall and use Q = It

          4	use, for a current-carrying conductor, the expression I = Anvq, where n is the number density of charge
             carriers



          9.2 Potential difference and power

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    define the potential difference across a component as the energy transferred per unit charge

          2    recall and use V = W / Q

          3    recall and use P = VI, P = I 2R and P = V 2 / R



          9.3 Resistance and resistivity

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    define resistance

          2    recall and use V = IR

          3	sketch the I–V characteristics of a metallic conductor at constant temperature, a semiconductor diode
             and a filament lamp

          4	explain that the resistance of a filament lamp increases as current increases because its temperature
             increases

          5    state Ohm’s law

          6    recall and use R = ρL / A

          7	understand that the resistance of a light-dependent resistor (LDR) decreases as the light intensity
             increases

          8    understand that the resistance of a thermistor decreases as the temperature increases (it will be
               assumed that thermistors have a negative temperature coefficient)




Back to contents page                                                                 www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       23
                                  Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          10   D.C. circuits

          10.1 Practical circuits

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    recall and use the circuit symbols shown in section 6 of this syllabus

          2    draw and interpret circuit diagrams containing the circuit symbols shown in section 6 of this syllabus

          3	define and use the electromotive force (e.m.f.) of a source as energy transferred per unit charge in
             driving charge around a complete circuit

          4    distinguish between e.m.f. and potential difference (p.d.) in terms of energy considerations

          5    understand the effects of the internal resistance of a source of e.m.f. on the terminal potential difference



          10.2 Kirchhoff’s laws

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    recall Kirchhoff’s first law and understand that it is a consequence of conservation of charge

          2    recall Kirchhoff’s second law and understand that it is a consequence of conservation of energy

          3    derive, using Kirchhoff’s laws, a formula for the combined resistance of two or more resistors in series

          4    use the formula for the combined resistance of two or more resistors in series

          5    derive, using Kirchhoff’s laws, a formula for the combined resistance of two or more resistors in parallel

          6    use the formula for the combined resistance of two or more resistors in parallel

          7    use Kirchhoff’s laws to solve simple circuit problems



          10.3 Potential dividers

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    understand the principle of a potential divider circuit

          2    recall and use the principle of the potentiometer as a means of comparing potential differences

          3    understand the use of a galvanometer in null methods

          4	explain the use of thermistors and light-dependent resistors in potential dividers to provide a potential
             difference that is dependent on temperature and light intensity




Back to contents page                                                                   www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel    24
                                  Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          11   Particle physics

          11.1 Atoms, nuclei and radiation

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    infer from the results of the α-particle scattering experiment the existence and small size of the nucleus

          2    describe a simple model for the nuclear atom to include protons, neutrons and orbital electrons

          3    distinguish between nucleon number and proton number

          4	understand that isotopes are forms of the same element with different numbers of neutrons in their
             nuclei

          5    understand and use the notation AZ X for the representation of nuclides

          6    understand that nucleon number and charge are conserved in nuclear processes

          7	describe the composition, mass and charge of α-, β- and γ-radiations (both β – (electrons) and β+
             (positrons) are included)

          8	understand that an antiparticle has the same mass but opposite charge to the corresponding particle,
             and that a positron is the antiparticle of an electron

          9	state that (electron) antineutrinos are produced during β – decay and (electron) neutrinos are produced
             during β+ decay

          10	understand that α-particles have discrete energies but that β-particles have a continuous range of
              energies because (anti)neutrinos are emitted in β-decay

          11	represent α- and β-decay by a radioactive decay equation of the form 238
                                                                                    92
                                                                                       U " 234
                                                                                            90
                                                                                               Th + 24 α

          12	use the unified atomic mass unit (u) as a unit of mass



          11.2 Fundamental particles

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that a quark is a fundamental particle and that there are six flavours (types) of quark: up,
             down, strange, charm, top and bottom

          2	recall and use the charge of each flavour of quark and understand that its respective antiquark has the
             opposite charge (no knowledge of any other properties of quarks is required)

          3	recall that protons and neutrons are not fundamental particles and describe protons and neutrons in
             terms of their quark composition

          4	understand that a hadron may be either a baryon (consisting of three quarks) or a meson (consisting of
             one quark and one antiquark)

          5    describe the changes to quark composition that take place during β – and β+ decay

          6    recall that electrons and neutrinos are fundamental particles called leptons




Back to contents page                                                                www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       25
                                   Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




         A Level subject content
          12   Motion in a circle

          12.1 Kinematics of uniform circular motion

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    define the radian and express angular displacement in radians

          2    understand and use the concept of angular speed

          3    recall and use ω = 2π / T and v = rω



          12.2 Centripetal acceleration

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that a force of constant magnitude that is always perpendicular to the direction of motion
             causes centripetal acceleration

          2    understand that centripetal acceleration causes circular motion with a constant angular speed

          3    recall and use a = rω2 and a = v2 / r

          4    recall and use F = mrω2 and F = mv2 / r



          13   Gravitational fields

          13.1 Gravitational field

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that a gravitational field is an example of a field of force and define gravitational field as
             force per unit mass

          2    represent a gravitational field by means of field lines



          13.2 Gravitational force between point masses

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that, for a point outside a uniform sphere, the mass of the sphere may be considered to be
             a point mass at its centre

          2    recall and use Newton’s law of gravitation F = Gm1m2 / r2 for the force between two point masses

          3	analyse circular orbits in gravitational fields by relating the gravitational force to the centripetal
             acceleration it causes

          4	understand that a satellite in a geostationary orbit remains at the same point above the Earth’s surface,
             with an orbital period of 24 hours, orbiting from west to east, directly above the Equator




Back to contents page                                                                   www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel     26
                                  Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          13.3 Gravitational field of a point mass

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	derive, from Newton’s law of gravitation and the definition of gravitational field, the equation
             g = GM / r 2 for the gravitational field strength due to a point mass

          2	recall and use g = GM / r 2

          3    understand why g is approximately constant for small changes in height near the Earth’s surface



          13.4 Gravitational potential

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	define gravitational potential at a point as the work done per unit mass in bringing a small test mass
             from infinity to the point

          2    use ϕ = –GM / r for the gravitational potential in the field due to a point mass

          3	understand how the concept of gravitational potential leads to the gravitational potential energy of two
             point masses and use EP = –GMm / r



          14   Temperature

          14.1 Thermal equilibrium

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that (thermal) energy is transferred from a region of higher temperature to a region of lower
             temperature

          2    understand that regions of equal temperature are in thermal equilibrium



          14.2 Temperature scales

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that a physical property that varies with temperature may be used for the measurement of
             temperature and state examples of such properties, including the density of a liquid, volume of a gas at
             constant pressure, resistance of a metal, e.m.f. of a thermocouple

          2	understand that the scale of thermodynamic temperature does not depend on the property of any
             particular substance

          3	convert temperatures between kelvin and degrees Celsius and recall that T / K = θ / °C + 273.15

          4	understand that the lowest possible temperature is zero kelvin on the thermodynamic temperature
             scale and that this is known as absolute zero




Back to contents page                                                                  www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel     27
                                   Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          14.3 Specific heat capacity and specific latent heat

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    define and use specific heat capacity

          2	define and use specific latent heat and distinguish between specific latent heat of fusion and specific
             latent heat of vaporisation



          15   Ideal gases

          15.1 The mole

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    understand that amount of substance is an SI base quantity with the base unit mol

          2	use molar quantities where one mole of any substance is the amount containing a number of particles
             of that substance equal to the Avogadro constant NA



          15.2 Equation of state

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    understand that a gas obeying pV ∝ T, where T is the thermodynamic temperature, is known as an
               ideal gas

          2	recall and use the equation of state for an ideal gas expressed as pV = nRT, where n = amount of
             substance (number of moles) and as pV = NkT, where N = number of molecules

          3    recall that the Boltzmann constant k is given by k = R / NA



          15.3 Kinetic theory of gases

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    state the basic assumptions of the kinetic theory of gases

          2	explain how molecular movement causes the pressure exerted by a gas and derive and use the
                               1
             relationship pV = 3 Nm<c2>, where <c2> is the mean-square speed (a simple model considering
                                                                                     1
             one-dimensional collisions and then extending to three dimensions using 3 <c2> = <cx2> is sufficient)

          3    understand that the root-mean-square speed cr.m.s. is given by      <c 2 >

                               1
          4	compare pV = 3 Nm<c2> with pV = NkT to deduce that the average translational kinetic energy of a
                           3
               molecule is 2 kT, and recall and use this expression




Back to contents page                                                                 www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       28
                                  Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          16   Thermodynamics
               An understanding of energy from Cambridge IGCSE/O Level Physics or equivalent is assumed.

          16.1 Internal energy

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that internal energy is determined by the state of the system and that it can be expressed
             as the sum of a random distribution of kinetic and potential energies associated with the molecules of a
             system

          2    relate a rise in temperature of an object to an increase in its internal energy



          16.2 The first law of thermodynamics

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	recall and use W = p∆V for the work done when the volume of a gas changes at constant pressure and
             understand the difference between the work done by the gas and the work done on the gas

          2	recall and use the first law of thermodynamics ∆U = q + W expressed in terms of the increase in
             internal energy, the heating of the system (energy transferred to the system by heating) and the work
             done on the system



          17   Oscillations

          17.1 Simple harmonic oscillations

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand and use the terms displacement, amplitude, period, frequency, angular frequency and
             phase difference in the context of oscillations, and express the period in terms of both frequency and
             angular frequency

          2	understand that simple harmonic motion occurs when acceleration is proportional to displacement
             from a fixed point and in the opposite direction

          3	use a = – ω2 x and recall and use, as a solution to this equation, x = x0 sin ωt

          4	use the equations v = v0 cos ωt and v = ± ω        (x02 − x 2)

          5	analyse and interpret graphical representations of the variations of displacement, velocity and
             acceleration for simple harmonic motion




Back to contents page                                                                  www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel     29
                                  Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          17.2 Energy in simple harmonic motion

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    describe the interchange between kinetic and potential energy during simple harmonic motion

                                   1
          2    recall and use E = 2 mω2 x02 for the total energy of a system undergoing simple harmonic motion



          17.3 Damped and forced oscillations, resonance

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    understand that a resistive force acting on an oscillating system causes damping

          2	understand and use the terms light, critical and heavy damping and sketch displacement–time graphs
             illustrating these types of damping

          3	understand that resonance involves a maximum amplitude of oscillations and that this occurs when an
             oscillating system is forced to oscillate at its natural frequency



          18   Electric fields

          18.1 Electric fields and field lines

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that an electric field is an example of a field of force and define electric field as force per
             unit positive charge

          2	recall and use F = qE for the force on a charge in an electric field

          3    represent an electric field by means of field lines



          18.2 Uniform electric fields

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	recall and use E = ∆V / ∆d to calculate the field strength of the uniform field between charged parallel
             plates

          2    describe the effect of a uniform electric field on the motion of charged particles




Back to contents page                                                                 www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel      30
                                   Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          18.3 Electric force between point charges

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that, for a point outside a spherical conductor, the charge on the sphere may be
             considered to be a point charge at its centre

          2    recall and use Coulomb’s law F = Q1Q2 / (4πε 0 r 2) for the force between two point charges in free space



          18.4 Electric field of a point charge

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    recall and use E = Q / (4πε 0 r 2) for the electric field strength due to a point charge in free space



          18.5 Electric potential

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	define electric potential at a point as the work done per unit positive charge in bringing a small test
             charge from infinity to the point

          2	recall and use the fact that the electric field at a point is equal to the negative of potential gradient at
             that point

          3    use V = Q / (4πε 0 r) for the electric potential in the field due to a point charge

          4	understand how the concept of electric potential leads to the electric potential energy of two point
             charges and use EP = Qq / (4πε 0 r)



          19   Capacitance

          19.1 Capacitors and capacitance

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    define capacitance, as applied to both isolated spherical conductors and to parallel plate capacitors

          2    recall and use C = Q / V

          3    derive, using C = Q / V, formulae for the combined capacitance of capacitors in series and in parallel

          4    use the capacitance formulae for capacitors in series and in parallel




Back to contents page                                                                     www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel   31
                                  Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          19.2 Energy stored in a capacitor

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	determine the electric potential energy stored in a capacitor from the area under the potential–charge
             graph

                                   1       1
          2	recall and use W = 2 QV = 2 CV2



          19.3 Discharging a capacitor

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	analyse graphs of the variation with time of potential difference, charge and current for a capacitor
             discharging through a resistor

          2    recall and use τ = RC for the time constant for a capacitor discharging through a resistor

          3	use equations of the form x = x0 e –(t / RC) where x could represent current, charge or potential difference
             for a capacitor discharging through a resistor



          20   Magnetic fields

          20.1 Concept of a magnetic field

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that a magnetic field is an example of a field of force produced either by moving charges or
             by permanent magnets

          2    represent a magnetic field by field lines



          20.2 Force on a current-carrying conductor

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    understand that a force might act on a current-carrying conductor placed in a magnetic field

          2    recall and use the equation F = BIL sin θ, with directions as interpreted by Fleming’s left-hand rule

          3	define magnetic flux density as the force acting per unit current per unit length on a wire placed at right-
             angles to the magnetic field




Back to contents page                                                                www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       32
                                  Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          20.3 Force on a moving charge

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    determine the direction of the force on a charge moving in a magnetic field

          2    recall and use F = BQv sin θ

          3    understand the origin of the Hall voltage and derive and use the expression VH = BI / (ntq),
               where t = thickness

          4    understand the use of a Hall probe to measure magnetic flux density

          5	describe the motion of a charged particle moving in a uniform magnetic field perpendicular to the
             direction of motion of the particle

          6    explain how electric and magnetic fields can be used in velocity selection



          20.4 Magnetic fields due to currents

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	sketch magnetic field patterns due to the currents in a long straight wire, a flat circular coil and a long
             solenoid

          2    understand that the magnetic field due to the current in a solenoid is increased by a ferrous core

          3	explain the origin of the forces between current-carrying conductors and determine the direction of the
             forces



          20.5 Electromagnetic induction

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	define magnetic flux as the product of the magnetic flux density and the cross-sectional area
             perpendicular to the direction of the magnetic flux density

          2    recall and use Φ = BA

          3    understand and use the concept of magnetic flux linkage

          4    understand and explain experiments that demonstrate:
               • that a changing magnetic flux can induce an e.m.f. in a circuit
               • that the induced e.m.f. is in such a direction as to oppose the change producing it
               • the factors affecting the magnitude of the induced e.m.f.

          5    recall and use Faraday’s and Lenz’s laws of electromagnetic induction




Back to contents page                                                                 www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel      33
                                  Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          21    Alternating currents
               An understanding of the practical and economic advantages of transmission of power by electricity
                from Cambridge IGCSE / O Level Physics or equivalent is assumed.

          21.1 Characteristics of alternating currents

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand and use the terms period, frequency and peak value as applied to an alternating current or
             voltage

          2	use equations of the form x = x0 sin ωt representing a sinusoidally alternating current or voltage

          3	recall and use the fact that the mean power in a resistive load is half the maximum power for a
             sinusoidal alternating current

          4	distinguish between root-mean-square (r.m.s.) and peak values and recall and use I r.m.s. = I0 /          2 and
             Vr.m.s. = V0 / 2 for a sinusoidal alternating current



          21.2 Rectification and smoothing

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    distinguish graphically between half-wave and full-wave rectification

          2    explain the use of a single diode for the half-wave rectification of an alternating current

          3    explain the use of four diodes (bridge rectifier) for the full-wave rectification of an alternating current

          4	analyse the effect of a single capacitor in smoothing, including the effect of the values of capacitance
             and the load resistance



          22   Quantum physics

          22.1 Energy and momentum of a photon

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    understand that electromagnetic radiation has a particulate nature

          2    understand that a photon is a quantum of electromagnetic energy

          3    recall and use E = hf

          4    use the electronvolt (eV) as a unit of energy

          5    understand that a photon has momentum and that the momentum is given by p = E / c




Back to contents page                                                                    www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel   34
                                  Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          22.2 Photoelectric effect

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that photoelectrons may be emitted from a metal surface when it is illuminated by
             electromagnetic radiation

          2    understand and use the terms threshold frequency and threshold wavelength

          3    explain photoelectric emission in terms of photon energy and work function energy

                                          1
          4    recall and use hf = Φ + 2 mvmax2

          5	explain why the maximum kinetic energy of photoelectrons is independent of intensity, whereas the
             photoelectric current is proportional to intensity



          22.3 Wave-particle duality

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that the photoelectric effect provides evidence for a particulate nature of electromagnetic
             radiation while phenomena such as interference and diffraction provide evidence for a wave nature

          2	describe and interpret qualitatively the evidence provided by electron diffraction for the wave nature of
             particles

          3    understand the de Broglie wavelength as the wavelength associated with a moving particle

          4    recall and use λ = h / p



          22.4 Energy levels in atoms and line spectra

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    understand that there are discrete electron energy levels in isolated atoms (e.g. atomic hydrogen)

          2    understand the appearance and formation of emission and absorption line spectra

          3    recall and use hf = E1 – E2




Back to contents page                                                                www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       35
                                      Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          23   Nuclear physics

          23.1 Mass defect and nuclear binding energy

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand the equivalence between energy and mass as represented by E = mc2 and recall and use
             this equation

          2    represent simple nuclear reactions by nuclear equations of the form 147 N + 24 He " 178 O + 11 H

          3    define and use the terms mass defect and binding energy

          4    sketch the variation of binding energy per nucleon with nucleon number

          5    explain what is meant by nuclear fusion and nuclear fission

          6	explain the relevance of binding energy per nucleon to nuclear reactions, including nuclear fusion and
             nuclear fission

          7    calculate the energy released in nuclear reactions using E = c2∆ m



          23.2 Radioactive decay

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    understand that fluctuations in count rate provide evidence for the random nature of radioactive decay

          2    understand that radioactive decay is both spontaneous and random

          3    define activity and decay constant, and recall and use A = λN

          4    define half-life

          5    use λ = 0.693 / t 1
                                  2

          6	understand the exponential nature of radioactive decay, and sketch and use the relationship x = x0e –λt,
             where x could represent activity, number of undecayed nuclei or received count rate




Back to contents page                                                                    www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       36
                                  Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          24   Medical physics

          24.1 Production and use of ultrasound

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that a piezo-electric crystal changes shape when a p.d. is applied across it and that the
             crystal generates an e.m.f. when its shape changes

          2    understand how ultrasound waves are generated and detected by a piezoelectric transducer

          3	understand how the reflection of pulses of ultrasound at boundaries between tissues can be used to
             obtain diagnostic information about internal structures

          4	define the specific acoustic impedance of a medium as Z = ρc, where c is the speed of sound in the
             medium

          5	use IR / I0 = (Z1 – Z2)2 / (Z1 + Z2)2 for the intensity reflection coefficient of a boundary between two media

          6    recall and use I = I0e –μ x for the attenuation of ultrasound in matter



          24.2 Production and use of X-rays

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	explain that X-rays are produced by electron bombardment of a metal target and calculate the minimum
             wavelength of X-rays produced from the accelerating p.d.

          2	understand the use of X-rays in imaging internal body structures, including an understanding of the
             term contrast in X-ray imaging

          3	recall and use I = I0e –μ x for the attenuation of X-rays in matter

          4	understand that computed tomography (CT) scanning produces a 3D image of an internal structure
             by first combining multiple X-ray images taken in the same section from different angles to obtain a 2D
             image of the section, then repeating this process along an axis and combining 2D images of multiple
             sections




Back to contents page                                                                    www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel   37
                                  Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          24.3 PET scanning

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that a tracer is a substance containing radioactive nuclei that can be introduced into the
             body and is then absorbed by the tissue being studied

          2    recall that a tracer that decays by β+ decay is used in positron emission tomography (PET scanning)

          3	understand that annihilation occurs when a particle interacts with its antiparticle and that mass–energy
             and momentum are conserved in the process

          4	explain that, in PET scanning, positrons emitted by the decay of the tracer annihilate when they interact
             with electrons in the tissue, producing a pair of gamma-ray photons travelling in opposite directions

          5	calculate the energy of the gamma-ray photons emitted during the annihilation of an electron-positron
             pair

          6	understand that the gamma-ray photons from an annihilation event travel outside the body and can
             be detected, and an image of the tracer concentration in the tissue can be created by processing the
             arrival times of the gamma-ray photons



          25   Astronomy and cosmology

          25.1 Standard candles

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    understand the term luminosity as the total power of radiation emitted by a star

          2	recall and use the inverse square law for radiant flux intensity F in terms of the luminosity L of the source
             F = L / (4πd 2)

          3    understand that an object of known luminosity is called a standard candle

          4    understand the use of standard candles to determine distances to galaxies



          25.2 Stellar radii

          Candidates should be able to:

          1    recall and use Wien’s displacement law λmax ∝ 1 / T to estimate the peak surface temperature of a star

          2    use the Stefan–Boltzmann law L = 4πσr 2 T 4

          3    use Wien’s displacement law and the Stefan–Boltzmann law to estimate the radius of a star




Back to contents page                                                                www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       38
                                  Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Subject content




          25.3 Hubble’s law and the Big Bang theory

          Candidates should be able to:

          1	understand that the lines in the emission and absorption spectra from distant objects show an increase
             in wavelength from their known values

          2	use ∆λ / λ . ∆f / f . v / c for the redshift of electromagnetic radiation from a source moving relative to an
             observer

          3	explain why redshift leads to the idea that the Universe is expanding

          4	recall and use Hubble’s law v . H0 d and explain how this leads to the Big Bang theory
             (candidates will only be required to use SI units)




Back to contents page                                                                www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       39
                                                 Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027.




         4 Details of the assessment

         Paper 1 Multiple Choice
         Written paper, 1 hour 15 minutes, 40 marks

         Forty multiple-choice items of the four-choice type testing assessment objectives AO1 and AO2. Questions are
         based on the AS Level syllabus content.



         Paper 2 AS Level Structured Questions
         Written paper, 1 hour 15 minutes, 60 marks

         Structured questions testing assessment objectives AO1 and AO2. Questions are based on the AS Level
         syllabus content.



         Paper 3 Advanced Practical Skills
         Practical test, 2 hours, 40 marks

         This paper tests assessment objective AO3 in a practical context.

         Two questions assess the AS Level practical skills in the Practical assessment section of the syllabus. The
         content of the questions may be outside the syllabus content.



         Paper 4 A Level Structured Questions
         Written paper, 2 hours, 100 marks

         Structured questions testing assessment objectives AO1 and AO2.

         Questions are based on the A Level syllabus; knowledge of material from the AS Level syllabus content will be
         required.



         Paper 5 Planning, Analysis and Evaluation
         Written paper, 1 hour 15 minutes, 30 marks

         Two questions testing assessment objective AO3.

         Questions are based on the A Level practical skills of planning, analysis and evaluation but may require
         knowledge of practical skills from the AS Level syllabus. The content of the questions may be outside of the
         syllabus content.




Back to contents page                                                               www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       40
                        Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Details of the assessment




         Command words
         Command words and their meanings help candidates know what is expected from them in the exam. The table
         below includes command words used in the assessment for this syllabus. The use of the command word will
         relate to the subject context.


          Command word          What it means

          Calculate             work out from given facts, figures or information

          Comment               give an informed opinion

          Compare               identify/comment on similarities and/or differences

          Define                give precise meaning

          Describe              state the points of a topic / give characteristics and main features

          Determine             establish an answer using the information available

          Explain               set out purposes or reasons / make the relationships between things evident / provide
                                why and/or how and support with relevant evidence

          Give                  produce an answer from a given source or recall/memory

          Identify              name/select/recognise

          Justify               support a case with evidence/argument

          Predict               suggest what may happen based on available information

          Show (that)           provide structured evidence that leads to a given result

          Sketch                make a simple freehand drawing showing the key features

          State                 express in clear terms

          Suggest               apply knowledge and understanding to situations where there are a range of valid
                                responses in order to make proposals




Back to contents page                                                                 www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel      41
                                                   Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027.




         5 Practical assessment

         Introduction
         Teachers should ensure that learners practise experimental skills throughout their course of study. As a guide,
         learners should spend at least 20 per cent of their time doing practical work individually or in small groups. This
         20 per cent does not include the time spent observing demonstrations of experiments.

         The practical work that learners do during their course should aim to:
         •   provide learning opportunities so they develop the skills they need to carry out experimental and
             investigative work
         •   reinforce their learning of the theoretical subject content of the syllabus
         •   instil an understanding of the relationship between experimentation and theory in scientific method
         •   be enjoyable, contributing to the motivation of learners.

         Candidates’ experimental skills will be assessed in Paper 3 and Paper 5. In each of these papers, the questions
         may be based on physics not included in the syllabus content, but candidates will be assessed on their
         practical skills rather than their knowledge of theory. Where appropriate, candidates will be given any additional
         information that they need.



         Paper 3 Advanced Practical Skills
         Paper 3 is a timetabled, laboratory-based practical paper focusing on the experimental skills of:
         •   manipulation, measurement and observation
         •   presentation of data and observations
         •   analysis, conclusions and evaluation.

         Centres should refer to the document ‘How to manage your sciences practical exams’ for advice on making
         entries and organisation of candidates for practical exams.

         Paper 3 consists of two questions, each of 1 hour and each of 20 marks.

         Question 1 will be an experiment requiring candidates to collect data, to plot a graph and to draw conclusions.

         Question 2 will be an experiment requiring candidates to collect data and to draw conclusions, but may or
         may not include the plotting of a graph. In the second question, the experimental method to be followed will be
         inaccurate, and candidates will be required to evaluate the method and suggest improvements.

         The two questions will be set in different areas of physics. No prior knowledge of the theory will be required.




Back to contents page                                                                      www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel   42
                             Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Practical assessment




         Mark allocations for Paper 3
         Marks will be allocated for Paper 3 according to the table below. The expectations for each skill are listed in the
         sections that follow.


          Question 1

          Skill                                  Breakdown of skills                                     Minimum mark
                                                                                                         allocation*
                                                 Successful collection of data
         Manipulation, measurement and
                                                                                                              7 marks
         observation                             Quality of data
                                                 Table of results
         Presentation of data and
                                                 Recording of data, observations and calculations             6 marks
         observations
                                                 Graph
                                                 Interpretation of graph
         Analysis, conclusions and
                                                                                                              4 marks
         evaluation                              Drawing conclusions

         * The remaining 3 marks will be allocated across the skills in this grid and their allocation may vary from paper
           to paper.


          Question 2

          Skill                                  Breakdown of skills                                     Minimum mark
                                                                                                         allocation*

          Manipulation, measurement and          Successful collection of data
                                                                                                              5 marks
          observation                            Quality of data

          Presentation of data and               Recording of data, observations and calculations
                                                                                                              2 marks
          observations
                                                 Drawing conclusions

                                                 Estimating uncertainties
          Analysis, conclusions and
                                                                                                              10 marks
          evaluation                             Identifying limitations

                                                 Suggesting improvements

         * The remaining 3 marks will be allocated across the skills in this grid and their allocation may vary from paper
           to paper.




Back to contents page                                                                  www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel     43
                             Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Practical assessment




         Expectations for each skill (Paper 3)
         Manipulation, measurement and observation
         Successful collection of data
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   set up apparatus correctly without assistance from the supervisor
         •   follow instructions given in the form of written instructions and diagrams (including circuit diagrams)
         •   use their apparatus to collect an appropriate quantity of data
         •   repeat readings where appropriate
         •   make measurements using common laboratory apparatus, such as millimetre scales, protractors, top-pan
             balances, newton meters, analogue or digital electrical meters, measuring cylinders, calipers*, micrometer
             screw gauges and thermometers
         •   use a stop-watch to measure intervals of time, including the period of an oscillating system by timing an
             appropriate number of consecutive oscillations
         •   use both analogue scales and digital displays.

         * Where calipers are required in the examination, centres may provide either vernier or digital calipers.
         Candidates should be familiar with the type of calipers provided.

         Some candidates will be unable to set up their apparatus without help and may ask for assistance from the
         supervisor. Supervisors will be given clear instructions on what assistance may be given to candidates, but
         this assistance should never go beyond the minimum necessary to enable candidates to take some readings:
         under no circumstances should help be given with the presentation of data, analysis or evaluation sections. All
         assistance must be reported to the examiners by recording details of the help given on the supervisor’s report,
         and candidates who require assistance will not be awarded full credit for the successful collection of data.


         Quality of data
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   make and record accurate measurements
         •   make measurements that span the largest possible range of values within the limits either of the equipment
             provided or of the instructions given.

         Marks will be awarded for measured data in which the values obtained are reasonable. In some cases, the
         award of the mark will be based on the scatter of points on a graph; in other cases, the candidate’s data may
         be compared with information supplied by the supervisor or known to the examiners. The examiners will only
         consider the extent to which the candidate has affected the quality of the data: allowances will be made where
         the quality of data is limited by the experimental method required or by the apparatus used.




Back to contents page                                                                 www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel      44
                              Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Practical assessment




         Presentation of data and observations
         Table of results
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   present numerical data and values in a single table of results
         •   record all data in the table
         •   draw up the table in advance of taking readings so that they do not have to copy up their results
         •   include in the table of results columns for raw data and for values calculated from them
         •   use column headings that include both the quantity and the unit and that conform to accepted scientific
             conventions.

         As an example of accepted scientific convention in column headings, if the quantity being measured is current
         in milliamperes, then ‘I / mA’ would be the usual way to write the column heading, but ‘I in mA’ or ‘I (mA)’ or
         ‘current / mA’ would be allowed. Headings such as ‘I mA’ or just ‘mA’ are not acceptable. The quantity or the
         unit or both may be written in words rather than symbols. Conventional symbols or abbreviations (such as p.d.)
         may be used without explanation.


         Recording of data, observations and calculations
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   record raw readings of a quantity to the same degree of precision
         •   calculate other quantities from their raw data
         •   show their working in calculations, and the key steps in their reasoning
         •   use and justify the correct number of significant figures in calculated quantities.

         For example, if one measurement of length in a column of raw data is given to the nearest millimetre, then all
         the lengths in that column should be given to the nearest millimetre. The degree of precision used should be
         compatible with the measuring instrument used: it would be inappropriate to record a distance measured on a
         millimetre scale as either ‘2 cm’ or ‘2.00 cm’.

         When a value is calculated from measured quantities (except by addition or subtraction), the appropriate
         number of significant figures for the calculated value usually depends on the measured quantity with the least
         number of significant figures. If this quantity has n significant figures, then n or n+1 significant figures are
         appropriate for the calculated value.

         For example, if values of a potential difference and of a current are measured to 2 and 4 significant figures
         respectively, then the corresponding resistance should be given to 2 or 3 significant figures, but not 1 or 4. The
         number of significant figures may, if necessary, vary down a column of values for a calculated quantity.


         Graph: Layout
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   clearly label graph axes with both the quantity and the unit, following accepted scientific conventions
         •   choose scales for graph axes such that the data points occupy at least half of the graph grid in both x- and
             y-directions
         •   use a false origin where appropriate
         •   choose scales for the graph axes that allow the graph to be read easily, such as 1, 2 or 5 units to a 2 cm
             square
         •   place regularly-spaced numerical labels along the whole of each axis at least every 2 cm.

         The accepted scientific conventions for labelling the axes of a graph are the same as for the column headings
         in a table of results.

Back to contents page                                                                   www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel     45
                              Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Practical assessment




         Graph: Plotting of points
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   plot all their data points on their graph grid to an accuracy of better than 1 mm.

         Points should be finely drawn with a sharp pencil, but must still be visible. A fine cross or an encircled dot is
         suitable; plotted points should have a diameter of less than 1 mm.


         Graph: Trend line
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   draw straight lines of best fit or curves to show the trend of a graph
         •   draw tangents to curved trend lines.

         The trend line should show an even distribution of points on either side of the line along its whole length. Lines
         should be finely drawn, continuous, and with a thickness of less than 1 mm, and should not contain kinks. If
         necessary, candidates may identify one point as anomalous and ignore this point when drawing the line. The
         anomalous point must be identified, e.g. circled or labelled.


         Analysis, conclusions and evaluation
         Interpretation of graph
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   relate straight-line graphs to equations of the form y = mx + c, and derive expressions that equate to the
             gradient and/or the y-intercept of their graphs
         •   read the coordinates of points on the trend line of a graph
         •   determine the gradient of a straight-line graph or of a tangent to a curve
         •   determine the y-intercept of a straight-line graph or of a tangent to a curve, including where these are on
             graphs with a false origin.

         When a gradient is to be determined, the points on the line chosen for the calculation should be separated by
         more than half of the length of the line drawn.

         In cases where the y-intercept cannot be read directly from the y-axis, it is expected that the coordinates of a
         point on the line and the gradient will be substituted into y = mx + c to determine the y-intercept.


         Estimating uncertainties
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   estimate the absolute uncertainty in measurements
         •   express the uncertainty in a measurement as an absolute or percentage uncertainty, and translate between
             these forms
         •   express the absolute uncertainty in a repeated measurement as half the range of the repeated readings,
             where this is appropriate.




Back to contents page                                                                  www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel      46
                             Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Practical assessment




         Drawing conclusions
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   draw conclusions from an experiment, including determining the values of constants
         •   explain whether experimental data supports a given hypothesis
         •   make predictions.

         To determine whether a relationship containing a constant is supported by experimental data, candidates
         should:
         •   calculate the percentage difference between values of the constant
         •   compare this percentage difference with a given percentage uncertainty
         •   give a conclusion based on this comparison.


         Identifying limitations
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   identify and describe the limitations in an experimental procedure
         •   identify the most significant sources of uncertainty in an experiment.

         For uncertainties in measured quantities, candidates should state the quantity being measured and a reason for
         the uncertainty.


         Suggesting improvements
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   suggest modifications to an experimental arrangement that will improve the accuracy of the experiment or
             to extend the investigation to answer a new question
         •   describe these modifications clearly in words or diagrams.

         Candidates’ suggestions should be realistic, so that in principle they are achievable in practice in a school
         laboratory. The suggestions may include the use of other apparatus or different procedures, but not a different
         experiment. The suggested modifications may relate to sources of uncertainty identified by the candidate.
         Improvements that could have been made with the apparatus provided while following the instructions in the
         question will not normally gain credit.


         Administration of Paper 3
         Detailed regulations on the administration of Cambridge International practical examinations are contained in
         the Cambridge Handbook.

         Details of the specific requirements for apparatus and materials for a particular examination are given in the
         confidential instructions which are sent to centres several weeks prior to the examination. Centres should
         contact Cambridge International if they believe the confidential instructions have not been received.

         It is the responsibility of centres to provide the apparatus for practical examinations. Cambridge is not able to
         supply apparatus directly or provide advice on local suppliers of apparatus.




Back to contents page                                                                 www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel      47
                              Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Practical assessment




         Apparatus and materials
         Below is a list of the items that are regularly used in Paper 3. The list is not exhaustive: other items are usually
         required, to allow for variety in the questions set.

         cells: 1.5 V
         connecting leads and crocodile clips
         digital ammeter, minimum ranges 0–1 A reading to 0.01 A or better, 0–200 mA reading to 0.1 mA or better,
              0–20 mA reading to 0.01 mA or better (digital multimeters are suitable)
         digital voltmeter, minimum ranges 0–2 V reading to 0.001 V or better, 0–20 V reading to 0.01 V or better (digital
              multimeters are suitable)
         lamp and holder: 6 V 60 mA; 2.5 V 0.3 A
         power supply: variable up to 12 V d.c. (low resistance)
         rheostat (with a maximum resistance of at least 8 Ω, capable of carrying a current of at least 4 A)
         switch
         wire: constantan 26, 28, 30, 32, 34, 36, 38 swg or similar metric sizes

         long stem thermometer: –10 °C to 110 °C reading to 1 °C
         means to heat water safely to boiling (e.g. an electric kettle)
         plastic or polystyrene cup 200 cm3
         stirrer

         adhesive putty (e.g. Blu-tack)
         adhesive tape (e.g. Sellotape)
         balance reading to 0.1 g (this item may often be shared between sets of apparatus)
         bar magnet
         bare copper wire: 18, 20, 26 swg or similar metric sizes
         beaker: 100 cm3, 200 cm3 or 250 cm3
         card
         expendable steel spring (spring constant approx. 25 N m–1; unstretched length approx. 2 cm)
         G-clamp
         Magnadur ceramic magnets
         mass hanger
         micrometer screw gauge (this item may often be shared between sets of apparatus)
         modelling clay (e.g. Plasticine)
         newton meter (1 N, 10 N)
         pendulum bob
         protractor
         pulley
         rule with a millimetre scale (1 m, 0.5 m, 300 mm)
         scissors
         slotted masses (100 g, 50 g, 20 g, 10 g)
         stand, boss and clamp
         stop-watch (candidates may use their wristwatches), reading to 0.1 s or better
         stout pin or round nail
         string/thread/twine
         vernier or digital calipers (this item may often be shared between sets of apparatus)
         wire cutters


         Safety in the laboratory
         Responsibility for safety matters rests with centres.

         The attention of centres is drawn to any local regulations relating to safety and first aid.




Back to contents page                                                                   www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel     48
                              Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Practical assessment




         Paper 5 Planning, Analysis and Evaluation
         Paper 5 will be a timetabled written paper, focusing on the higher-order experimental skills of planning, analysis
         and evaluation.

         This examination will not require laboratory facilities.

         To prepare candidates for this exam, it should be emphasised that candidates will need extensive experience
         of laboratory work of A Level standard. In particular, learners cannot be taught to plan experiments effectively
         unless, on a number of occasions, they are required to:
         •   plan an experiment
         •   perform the experiment according to their plan
         •   evaluate what they have done.

         This requires many hours of laboratory-based work and careful supervision from teachers to ensure that
         experiments are performed safely.

         Paper 5 will consist of two questions each of 15 marks.

         Question 1 will be a planning question, in which candidates will be required to design an experimental
         investigation of a given problem. The question will not be highly structured: candidates will be expected to
         answer with a diagram and an extended piece of writing.

         Question 2 will be an analysis, conclusions and evaluation question, in which candidates will be given an
         equation and some experimental data. From these they will be required to find the value of a constant. This
         question will be structured but candidates will be expected to decide for themselves what they need to do in
         order to reach an answer. They will also be required to estimate the uncertainty in their answer.

         Some questions on this paper may be set in areas of physics that are difficult to investigate experimentally in
         school laboratories, either because of the cost of equipment or because of restrictions on the availability of
         materials (e.g. radioactive materials). No question will require knowledge of theory or equipment that is beyond
         the syllabus. Candidates will be given the necessary information for questions set on topics that do not form
         part of the syllabus.




Back to contents page                                                                 www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       49
                               Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Practical assessment




         Mark allocations for Paper 5
         Marks will be allocated for Paper 5 according to the table below. The expectations for each skill are listed in the
         sections that follow.


             Question 1
         Skill                                    Breakdown of skills                                        Mark
                                                                                                             allocation
                                                  Defining the problem
                                                  Methods of data collection
         Planning                                                                                               15 marks
                                                  Method of analysis
                                                  Additional detail including safety considerations


             Question 2

             Skill                                Breakdown of skills                                        Mark
                                                                                                             allocation
                                                  Data analysis

                                                  Table of results
             Analysis, conclusions and
                                                  Graph                                                        15 marks
             evaluation
                                                  Conclusion

                                                  Treatment of uncertainties



         Expectations for each skill (Paper 5)
         Planning
         Defining the problem
         Candidates should be able to:
         •     identify the independent variable in the experiment
         •     identify the dependent variable in the experiment
         •     identify the variables that are to be kept constant.


         Methods of data collection
         Candidates should be able to:
         •     describe the method to be used to vary the independent variable
         •     describe how the independent and dependent variables are to be measured
         •     describe how other variables are to be kept constant
         •     describe, with the aid of a clear labelled diagram, the arrangement of apparatus for the experiment and the
               procedures to be followed.




Back to contents page                                                                  www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       50
                              Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Practical assessment




         For full credit to be awarded in this section, the overall arrangement must be workable, that is, it should be
         possible to collect the data required without undue difficulty if the apparatus were assembled as described.
         The measuring instruments chosen should be fit for purpose, in that they should measure the correct physical
         quantity to a suitable precision for the experiment.


         Method of analysis
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   describe how the data should be used in order to reach a conclusion, including details of derived quantities
             to be calculated from graphs.


         Additional detail including safety considerations
         Marks will be available for additional relevant detail including safety precautions.

         How these marks are awarded will depend on the experiment that is to be planned, but they might, for
         example, include marks for describing how additional variables are to be kept constant, or for a diagram of a
         circuit needed to make a particular measurement or a description of initial experiments or an explanation of
         how to obtain calibration curves.

         For safety considerations, candidates should be able to:
         •   assess the risks of their experiment
         •   describe precautions that should be taken to keep risks to a minimum.

         Candidates should be able to:
         •   describe the use of an oscilloscope (or storage oscilloscope) to measure voltage, current, time and
             frequency
         •   describe how to use light gates connected to a data logger to determine time, velocity and acceleration
         •   describe how other sensors can be used with a data logger, e.g. motion sensor.


         Analysis, conclusions and evaluation
         Data analysis
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   rearrange expressions into the forms y = mx + c, y = axn and y = aekx
         •   understand how a graph of y against x is used to find the constants m and c in an equation of the form
             y = mx + c
         •   understand how a graph of log y against log x is used to find the constants a and n in an equation of the
             form y = axn
         •   understand how a graph of ln y against x is used to find the constants a and k in an equation of the form
             y = aekx
         •   decide what derived quantities to calculate from raw data in order to enable an appropriate graph to be
             plotted.




Back to contents page                                                                   www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel     51
                              Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Practical assessment




         Table of results
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   complete a table of results following the conventions required for Paper 3
         •   calculate other quantities from raw data and record them in a table
         •   use the correct number of significant figures for calculated quantities following the conventions required for
             Paper 3.

         Where logarithms are required, units should be shown with the quantity whose logarithm is being taken,
         e.g. ln (d / cm). The logarithm itself does not have a unit.

         For logarithmic quantities, the number of decimal places should correspond to the number of significant figures.
         For example, if L / cm is 76.5 (3 sf), then lg (L / cm) should be either 1.884 (3 dp) or 1.8837 (4 dp).


         Graph
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   plot a graph following the conventions required for Paper 3
         •   show error bars, in both directions where appropriate, for each point on the graph
         •   draw a straight line of best fit and a worst acceptable straight line through the points on the graph.

         The worst acceptable line should be either the steepest possible line or the shallowest possible line that passes
         through the error bars of all the data points. It should be distinguished from the line of best fit either by being
         drawn as a broken line or by being clearly labelled.


         Conclusion
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   determine the gradient and y-intercept of a straight-line graph
         •   derive expressions that equate to the gradient or the y-intercept of their straight lines of best fit
         •   draw the required conclusions, with correct units and appropriate number of significant figures, from these
             expressions.


         Treatment of uncertainties
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   convert absolute uncertainty estimates into fractional or percentage uncertainty estimates and vice versa
         •   show uncertainty estimates, in absolute terms, beside every value in a table of results
         •   calculate uncertainty estimates in derived quantities
         •   estimate the absolute uncertainty in the gradient of a graph by recalling that
             absolute uncertainty = gradient of line of best fit – gradient of worst acceptable line
         •   estimate the absolute uncertainty in the y-intercept of a graph by recalling that
             absolute uncertainty = y-intercept of line of best fit – y-intercept of worst acceptable line
         •   express a quantity as a value, an uncertainty estimate and a unit.




Back to contents page                                                                   www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel     52
                                                   Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027.




         6 Additional information

         Mathematical requirements
         We expect candidates to be able to use the following mathematical skills and knowledge in the assessment.
         Teaching the mathematical requirements should be included in the AS & A Level Physics course.


         At AS Level and A Level
         Arithmetic
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   recognise and use expressions in decimal and standard form (scientific) notation
         •   use a calculator for addition, subtraction, multiplication and division, and find arithmetic means, powers
             (including reciprocals and nth-roots), sines, cosines, tangents (and the inverse functions)
         •   understand how to perform calculations so that significant figures are neither lost unnecessarily nor carried
             beyond what is justified
         •   use approximations to check the magnitude of calculated results.


         Algebra
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   change the subject of an equation (most relevant equations involve only the simpler operations but may
             include positive and negative indices and nth-roots)
         •   solve simple algebraic equations
         •   solve a system of two linear simultaneous equations

                                              -b !    b 2 - 4ac
         •   recall and use the formula x =                     to solve quadratic equations
                                                     2a

         •   substitute physical quantities into physical equations using consistent units and check the dimensional
             consistency of such equations
         •   set up simple algebraic equations as mathematical models of physical situations, and identify inadequacies
             of such models
         •   use percentages to express changes or uncertainties
                                                                                                        n
         •   understand and use the symbols <, >, ⩽, ⩾, ≪, ≫, . , ±, /, ∝, 〈x〉 (= xr ) , / , ∆ x,   ,       .


         Geometry and trigonometry
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   recall and use formulae for the area and perimeter/circumference of rectangles, circles, right-angled and
             isosceles triangles
         •   recall and use formulae for the volume and surface area of cuboids, cylinders and spheres
         •   recall and use Pythagoras’ theorem in 2 and 3 dimensions
         •   use the similarity of triangles and the angle sum of a triangle
         •   understand and use the definitions of sin, cos and tan as applied to a right-angled triangle, and recall and
             use the relationship sin θ / cos θ = tan θ
         •   recall and use the trigonometric relationships for triangles a/sin A = b/sin B = c/sin C and
             a2 = b2 + c2 – 2bc cos A.




Back to contents page                                                                   www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel     53
                             Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Additional information




         Vectors
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   find the resultant of two coplanar vectors, recognising situations where vector addition is appropriate
         •   obtain expressions for components of a vector in perpendicular directions, recognising situations where
             vector resolution is appropriate.


         Graphs
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   select appropriate variables and scales for graph plotting
         •   determine the gradient, intercept and intersection of linear graphs
         •   choose, by inspection, a straight line which will serve as the line of best fit through a set of data points
             presented graphically
         •   draw a curved trend line through a set of data points presented graphically, when the arrangement of these
             data points is clearly indicative of a non-linear relationship
                                                                                          1     1
         •   sketch and recognise the forms of plots of common simple expressions like x , x2, 2 , sin x, cos x
                                                                                                    x
         •   draw a tangent to a curve, and understand and use the gradient of the tangent as a means to obtain the
             gradient of the curve at a point
         •   understand and use the area below a curve where the area has physical significance.


         Additional requirements for A Level only
         Geometry and trigonometry
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   recall and use sin2 θ + cos2 θ = 1
         •   recall and use sin θ ≈ tan θ ≈ θ and cos θ ≈ 1 for small θ
         •   understand the relationship between degrees and radians, convert from one to the other and use the
             appropriate system in context.


         Exponentials and logarithms
         Candidates should be able to:
         •   calculate exponentials and logarithms (lg and ln)
                                                                          a n kx
         •   recognise and use the logarithms of expressions like ab,       ,x ,e
                                                                          b
         •   sketch and recognise the form of a plot of e –x
         •   use logarithmic plots to test exponential and power law variations




Back to contents page                                                                   www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel      54
                              Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Additional information




         Summary of key quantities, symbols and units
         The list below is intended as a guide to the more important quantities which might be encountered in teaching
         and used in question papers.

         This list is for use in both AS Level and full A Level qualifications.


          Quantity                                                                Usual symbols         Usual unit
          Base quantities
          mass                                                                    m                     kg
          length                                                                  l                     m
          time                                                                    t                     s
          electric current                                                        I                     A
          thermodynamic temperature                                               T                     K
          amount of substance                                                     n                     mol
          Other quantities
          acceleration                                                            a                     m s–2
          acceleration of free fall                                               g                     m s–2
          activity of radioactive source                                          A                     Bq
          amplitude                                                               x0                    m
          angle                                                                   θ                     °, rad
          angular displacement                                                    θ                     °, rad
          angular frequency                                                       ω                     rad s–1
          angular speed                                                           ω                     rad s­–1
          angular velocity                                                        ω                     rad s–1
          area                                                                    A                     m2
          atomic mass                                                             ma                    kg, u
          attenuation/absorption coefficient                                      μ                     m –1
          Avogadro constant                                                       NA                    mol–1
          Boltzmann constant                                                      k                     J K–1
          capacitance                                                             C                     F
          Celsius temperature                                                     θ                     °C
          decay constant                                                          λ                     s–1
          density                                                                 ρ                     kg m –3
          displacement                                                            s, x                  m
          distance                                                                d                     m
          efficiency                                                              η
          electric charge                                                         q, Q                  C
          electric field strength                                                 E                     N C –1, V m –1
          electric potential                                                      V                     V
          electric potential difference                                           V                     V
          electromotive force                                                     E                     V
          electron mass                                                           me                    kg, u
          elementary charge                                                       e                     C




Back to contents page                                                                    www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel      55
                             Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Additional information




          Quantity                                                              Usual symbols          Usual unit
         energy                                                                E, U, W                 J
         force                                                                 F                       N
         frequency                                                             f                       Hz
         gravitational constant                                                G                       N m2 kg–2
         gravitational field strength                                          g                       N kg–1
         gravitational potential                                               ϕ                       J kg–1
         half-life                                                             t1
                                                                                2
                                                                                                       s
         Hall voltage                                                          VH                      V
         heating                                                               q, Q                    J
         Hubble constant                                                       H0                      s–1
         intensity                                                             I                       W m –2
         internal energy change                                                ∆U                      J
         kinetic energy                                                        EK                      J
         luminosity                                                            L                       W
         magnetic flux                                                         Φ                       Wb
         magnetic flux density                                                 B                       T
         mean-square speed                                                     <c2>                    m2 s–2
         molar gas constant                                                    R                       J mol–1 K–1
         moment of force                                                       T                       Nm
         momentum                                                              p                       Ns
         neutron mass                                                          mn                      kg, u
         neutron number                                                        N
         nucleon number                                                        A
         number                                                                N, n, m
         number density (number per unit volume)                               n                       m –3
         period                                                                T                       s
         permittivity of free space                                            ε0                      F m –1
         phase difference                                                      ϕ                       °, rad
         Planck constant                                                       h                       Js
         potential energy                                                      EP                      J
         power                                                                 P                       W
         pressure                                                              p                       Pa
         proton mass                                                           mp                      kg, u
         proton number                                                         Z
         radiant flux intensity                                                F                       W m –2
         resistance                                                            R                       Ω
         resistivity                                                           ρ                       Ωm




Back to contents page                                                                 www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel        56
                            Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Additional information




          Quantity                                                             Usual symbols          Usual unit
         specific acoustic impedance                                          Z                       kg m –2 s–1
         specific heat capacity                                               c                       J kg–1 K–1
         specific latent heat                                                 L                       J kg–1
         speed                                                                u, v, w, c              m s–1
         speed of electromagnetic waves                                       c                       m s–1
         spring constant                                                      k                       N m –1
         Stefan–Boltzmann constant                                            σ                       W m –2 K–4
         strain                                                               ε
         stress                                                               σ                       Pa
         time constant                                                        τ                       s
         torque                                                               T                       Nm
         velocity                                                             u, v, w, c              m s–1
         volume                                                               V, v                    m3
         wavelength                                                           λ                       m
         weight                                                               W                       N
         work                                                                 w, W                    J
         work function energy                                                 Φ                       J
         Young modulus                                                        E                       Pa




Back to contents page                                                                www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel        57
                              Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Additional information




        Data and formulae
           9702 Physics AS Level data sheet for Papers 1 and 2
        The following data and formulae will appear on page 2 in Papers 1, 2 and 4.

           Data

           acceleration of free fall                              g = 9.81 m s–2

           speed of light in free space                           c = 3.00 × 108 m s–1

           elementary charge                                      e = 1.60 × 10–19 C

           unified atomic mass unit                              1 u = 1.66 × 10–27 kg

           rest mass of proton                                   mp = 1.67 × 10–27 kg

           rest mass of electron                                 me = 9.11 × 10–31 kg

           Avogadro constant                                     NA = 6.02 × 1023 mol–1

           molar gas constant                                     R = 8.31 J K–1 mol–1

           Boltzmann constant                                     k = 1.38 × 10–23 J K–1

           gravitational constant                                 G = 6.67 × 10–11 N m2 kg–2

           permittivity of free space                             ε0 = 8.85 × 10–12 F m–1
                                                                1
                                                           (        = 8.99 × 109 m F–1)
                                                               4rf0

           Planck constant                                        h = 6.63 × 10–34 J s

           Stefan–Boltzmann constant                              σ = 5.67 × 10–8 W m–2 K–4



           Formulae

           uniformly accelerated motion                           s = ut + 12 at 2
                                                                 v 2 = u 2 + 2as

           hydrostatic pressure                                  ∆p = ρg∆h

           upthrust                                               F = ρgV

                                                                         fs v
           Doppler effect for sound waves                         fo = v ! v
                                                                            s


           electric current                                       I = Anvq

            resistors
Back to contents page in series                                   R = R1 + R2 + ...     www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       58
                                                                            –34
           Planck constantCambridge International AS & A Level
                                                            h =  6.63 ×
                                                               Physics          J s for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Additional information
                                                                         10syllabus
                                                                       9702


           Stefan–Boltzmann constant                          σ = 5.67 × 10–8 W m–2 K–4



           Formulae

           uniformly accelerated motion                       s = ut + 12 at 2
                                                             v 2 = u 2 + 2as

           hydrostatic pressure                             ∆p = ρg∆h

           upthrust                                           F = ρgV

                                                                    fs v
           Doppler effect for sound waves                    fo = v ! v
                                                                        s


           electric current                                   I = Anvq

           resistors in series                               R = R1 + R2 + ...

                                                             1   1   1
           resistors in parallel                               =   +   + ...
                                                             R   R1 R2




Back to contents page                                                               www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel      59
                            Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Additional information




           9702 Physics A Level data sheet for Paper 4
         The following formulae will appear on page 3 in Paper 4.

                                                                   GM
           gravitational potential                             ϕ =– r

                                                                       GMm
           gravitational potential energy                    EP = –     r

                                                                    1 Nm
           pressure of an ideal gas                            p = 3           〈c2〉
                                                                       V

           simple harmonic motion                              a = – ω 2x

           velocity of particle in s.h.m.                      v = v0 cos ωt
                                                               v = ± ω (x02 − x 2)

                                                                       Q
           electric potential                                 V =
                                                                    4rf0 r

                                                                     Qq
           electrical potential energy                       EP =
                                                                    4rf0 r

                                                              1   1   1
           capacitors in series                                 =   +   + ...
                                                              C   C1 C2

           capacitors in parallel                             C = C1 + C2 + ...

                                                                               t
           discharge of a capacitor                            x = x0 e-RC


                                                                    BI
           Hall voltage                                      VH =
                                                                    ntq

           alternating current/voltage                         x = x0 sin ωt

           radioactive decay                                   x = x0e–mt

                                                                    0.693
           decay constant                                     m =
                                                                      t1
                                                                           2




                                                             IR   (Z1 − Z2) 2
           intensity reflection coefficient                     =
                                                             I0   (Z + Z ) 2
                                                                       1           2


           Stefan–Boltzmann law                                L = 4πσr 2T 4

                                                             Dm   Df  v
           Doppler redshift                                     ≈    ≈c
                                                              m   f




Back to contents page                                                                  www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel      60
                              Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Additional information




         Circuit symbols
         The following table gives a guide to the circuit symbols that may be used in examination papers.



          cell                                                          switch




          battery of cells                         or                   earth




          power supply                                                  electric bell



          a.c. power supply                                             buzzer


          junction of conductors                                        microphone



          lamp                                                          loudspeaker



          fixed resistor                                                motor                                   M



          variable resistor                                             generator                                G



          thermistor                                                    ammeter                                  A




          light-dependent resistor                                      voltmeter                                V


          heater                                                        galvanometer




Back to contents page                                                                   www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       61
                             Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. Additional information




          potentiometer                                                oscilloscope




          diode                                                        capacitor




          light-emitting diode




Back to contents page                                                                 www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel        62
                                                  Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027.




         7 What else you need to know

         This section is an overview of other information you need to know about this syllabus. It will help to share the
         administrative information with your exams officer so they know when you will need their support. Find more
         information about our administrative processes at www.cambridgeinternational.org/eoguide



         Before you start
         Previous study
         We recommend that learners starting this course should have completed a course in Physics or Co-ordinated
         Science equivalent to Cambridge IGCSE™ or Cambridge O Level.


         Guided learning hours
         We design Cambridge International AS & A Level syllabuses to require about 180 guided learning hours for
         each Cambridge International AS Level and about 360 guided learning hours for a Cambridge International A
         Level. The number of hours a learner needs to achieve the qualification may vary according to each school and
         the learners’ previous experience of the subject.


         Availability and timetables
         All Cambridge schools are allocated to an administrative zone. Each zone has a specific timetable.

         You can view the timetable for your administrative zone at www.cambridgeinternational.org/timetables

         You can enter candidates in the June and November exam series. If your school is in India, you can also enter
         your candidates in the March exam series.

         Check you are using the syllabus for the year the candidate is taking the exam.

         Private candidates can enter for this syllabus. However, it is expected that private candidates learn in an
         environment where practical work is an integral part of the course. Candidates will not be able to perform well
         in this assessment or progress successfully to further study without this necessary and important aspect of
         science education. For more information, please refer to the Cambridge Guide to Making Entries.


         Combining with other syllabuses
         Candidates can take this syllabus alongside other Cambridge International syllabuses in a single exam series.
         The only exceptions are:
         •   syllabuses with the same title at the same level.


         Group awards: Cambridge AICE
         Cambridge AICE (Advanced International Certificate of Education) is a group award for Cambridge International
         AS & A Level. It allows schools to offer a broad and balanced curriculum by recognising the achievements of
         learners who pass exams in a range of different subjects.

         Learn more about Cambridge AICE at www.cambridgeinternational.org/aice




Back to contents page                                                                 www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel      63
                        Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. What else you need to know




         Making entries
         Exams officers are responsible for submitting entries to Cambridge International. We encourage them to work
         closely with you to make sure they enter the right number of candidates for the right combination of syllabus
         components. Entry option codes and instructions for submitting entries are in the Cambridge Guide to Making
         Entries. Your exams officer has a copy of this guide.


         Exam administration
         To keep our exams secure, we produce question papers for different areas of the world, known as
         administrative zones. We allocate all Cambridge schools to one administrative zone determined by their
         location. Each zone has a specific timetable. Some of our syllabuses offer candidates different assessment
         options. An entry option code is used to identify the components the candidate will take relevant to the
         administrative zone and the available assessment options.


         Support for exams officers
         We know how important exams officers are to the successful running of exams. We provide them with the
         support they need to make your entries on time. Your exams officer will find this support, and guidance for all
         other phases of the Cambridge Exams Cycle, at www.cambridgeinternational.org/eoguide


         Retakes and carrying forward marks
         Candidates can retake Cambridge International AS Level and Cambridge International A Level as many times
         as they want to. Information on retake entries is at www.cambridgeinternational.org/retakes

         Candidates can carry forward the result of their Cambridge International AS Level assessment from one series
         to complete the Cambridge International A Level in a following series, subject to the rules and time limits
         described in the Cambridge Handbook.


         Language
         This syllabus and the related assessment materials are available in English only.



         Accessibility and equality
         Syllabus and assessment design
         Cambridge International works to avoid direct or indirect discrimination. We develop and design syllabuses and
         assessment materials to maximise inclusivity for candidates of all national, cultural or social backgrounds and
         candidates with protected characteristics; these protected characteristics include special educational needs
         and disability, religion and belief, and characteristics related to gender and identity. In addition, the language
         and layout used are designed to make our materials as accessible as possible. This gives all candidates the
         fairest possible opportunity to demonstrate their knowledge, skills and understanding and helps to minimise the
         requirement to make reasonable adjustments during the assessment process.


         Access arrangements
         Access arrangements (including modified papers) are the principal way in which Cambridge International
         complies with our duty, as guided by the UK Equality Act (2010), to make ‘reasonable adjustments’ for
         candidates with special educational needs (SEN), disability, illness or injury. Where a candidate would otherwise
         be at a substantial disadvantage in comparison to a candidate with no SEN, disability, illness or injury, we
         may be able to agree pre-examination access arrangements. These arrangements help a candidate by
         minimising accessibility barriers and maximising their opportunity to demonstrate their knowledge, skills and
         understanding in an assessment.


Back to contents page                                                                 www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       64
                        Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. What else you need to know




         Important:
         •   Requested access arrangements should be based on evidence of the candidate’s barrier to assessment
             and should also reflect their normal way of working at school; this is in line with the Cambridge Handbook
             www.cambridgeinternational.org/eoguide
         •   For Cambridge International to approve an access arrangement, we will need to agree that it constitutes
             a reasonable adjustment, involves reasonable cost and timeframe and does not affect the security and
             integrity of the assessment.
         •   Availability of access arrangements should be checked by centres at the start of the course. Details of our
             standard access arrangements and modified question papers are available in the Cambridge Handbook
             www.cambridgeinternational.org/eoguide
         •   Please contact us at the start of the course to find out if we are able to approve an arrangement that is not
             included in the list of standard access arrangements.
         •   Candidates who cannot access parts of the assessment may be able to receive an award based on the
             parts they have completed.



         After the exam
         Grading and reporting
         Grades A*, A, B, C, D or E indicate the standard a candidate achieved at Cambridge International A Level. A* is the
         highest and E is the lowest grade.

         Grades a, b, c, d or e indicate the standard a candidate achieved at Cambridge International AS Level. ‘a’ is the
         highest and ‘e’ is the lowest grade.

         ‘Ungraded’ means that the candidate’s performance did not meet the standard required for the lowest grade
         (E or e). ‘Ungraded’ is reported on the statement of results but not on the certificate. In specific circumstances
         your candidates may see one of the following letters on their statement of results:
         •   Q (PENDING)
         • X (NO RESULT).
         These letters do not appear on the certificate.

         If a candidate takes a Cambridge International A Level and fails to achieve grade E or higher, a Cambridge
         International AS Level grade will be awarded if both of the following apply:
         •   the components taken for the Cambridge International A Level by the candidate in that series included all
             the components making up a Cambridge International AS Level
         •   the candidate’s performance on the AS Level components was sufficient to merit the award of a Cambridge
             International AS Level grade.

         On the statement of results and certificates, Cambridge International AS & A Levels are shown as General
         Certificates of Education, GCE Advanced Subsidiary Level (GCE AS Level) and GCE Advanced Level (GCE
         A Level).


         School feedback: ‘Cambridge International A Levels are the ‘gold standard’ qualification. They
         are based on rigorous, academic syllabuses that are accessible to students from a wide range
         of abilities yet have the capacity to stretch our most able.’
         Feedback from: Director of Studies, Auckland Grammar School, New Zealand




Back to contents page                                                                 www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       65
                        Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. What else you need to know




         How students, teachers and higher education can use the grades
         Cambridge International A Level
         Assessment at Cambridge International A Level has two purposes:
         1   to measure learning and achievement
             The assessment confirms achievement and performance in relation to the knowledge, understanding and
             skills specified in the syllabus, to the levels described in the grade descriptions.
         2   to show likely future success
             The outcomes help predict which students are well prepared for a particular course or career and/or which
             students are more likely to be successful.
             The outcomes help students choose the most suitable course or career.


         Cambridge International AS Level
         Assessment at Cambridge International AS Level has two purposes:
         1   to measure learning and achievement
             The assessment confirms achievement and performance in relation to the knowledge, understanding and
             skills specified in the syllabus.
         2   to show likely future success
             The outcomes help predict which students are well prepared for a particular course or career and/or which
             students are more likely to be successful.
             The outcomes help students choose the most suitable course or career.
             The outcomes help decide whether students part way through a Cambridge International A Level course
             are making enough progress to continue.
             The outcomes guide teaching and learning in the next stages of the Cambridge International A Level
             course.


         Grade descriptions
         Grade descriptions are provided to give an indication of the standards of achievement candidates awarded
         particular grades are likely to show. Weakness in one aspect of the examination may be balanced by a better
         performance in some other aspect.

         Grade descriptions for Cambridge International A Level Physics will be published after the first assessment of
         the A Level in 2022.




Back to contents page                                                                 www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel       66
                        Cambridge International AS & A Level Physics 9702 syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027. What else you need to know




         Changes to this syllabus for 2025, 2026 and 2027
         The syllabus has been updated. This is version 1, published September 2022.

         You must read the whole syllabus before planning your teaching programme. We review our
         syllabuses regularly to make sure they continue to meet the needs of our schools. In updating this syllabus, we
         have made it easier for teachers and students to understand, keeping the familiar features that teachers and
         schools value.


          Changes to syllabus                •   The wording in learning outcomes 3.3.3, 7.5.2, 15.3.4 and 25.3.1 has
          content                                been updated.


          Significant changes to the syllabus are indicated by black vertical lines either side of the text.



          Any textbooks endorsed to support the syllabus for examination from 2022 are still suitable for
          use with this syllabus.




Back to contents page                                                                   www.cambridgeinternational.org/alevel     67
School feedback: ‘While studying Cambridge IGCSE and Cambridge International A Levels, students
broaden their horizons through a global perspective and develop a lasting passion for learning.’
Feedback from: Zhai Xiaoning, Deputy Principal, The High School Affiliated to Renmin University of China




We are committed to making our documents accessible in accordance with the WCAG 2.1 Standard. We are always looking to improve
the accessibility of our documents. If you find any problems or you think we are not meeting accessibility requirements, contact us at
info@cambridgeinternational.org with the subject heading: Digital accessibility. If you need this document in a different format, contact
us and supply your name, email address and requirements and we will respond within 15 working days.




Cambridge Assessment International Education, The Triangle Building, Shaftesbury Road, Cambridge, CB2 8EA, United Kingdom
t : +44 (0)1223 553554            email : info@cambridgeinternational.org             www.cambridgeinternational.org

© Cambridge University Press & Assessment September 2022
